the University of Tennessee Knoxville is
home to the nation's first fully
automated electric bike sharing station
make that two stations thanks to
research questions posed by civil and
environmental engineering assistant
professor Chris cherry we have electric
assisted bike so that have an electric
motor in the hub that allows users to go
up of hills with more ease we also have
regular bicycles that that are included
in the system so if somebody has a
preference for regular bicycles they can
use those those regular bicycles one
station located in presidential court
uses power off the grid the other on the
agriculture campus uses solar power
registered members of Cherry's pilot
program easily check out bikes with the
swipe of their University ID when the
user wants to check out a bike first
they got to check out a battery here we
have a battery vending system that
allows us to distribute the right
battery to the user the battery that
asurs a minimum state of charge meaning
they can go a certain distance on a
single charge we give them the battery
this is a lithium ion battery they close
the door and we send them to a bike an
electric bike that's ready to go they
slide the battery in the back lock it up
and then check the bike out Jerry and
his team are collecting data on a number
of questions related to safety
environmental impact in travel behavior
to see if electric bikes could become
more popular here in the US one of the
main motivations for including electric
bikes in a bike sharing system is I was
hoping to expose more people to a
relatively very efficient mode of
transportation and a lot of people won't
bicycle around campus or around he's
kind of see because of the terrain and
weather and other things electric bikes
can help overcome that according to
Cherry electric bikes also overcome air
quality and environmental health issues
by displacing other more polluting modes
of transportation